<script>
document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', (event) => {
  document.querySelectorAll('h3 code').forEach((block) => {
    hljs.highlightBlock(block);
  });
});
</script>

<style>
h3 .content { 
    padding-left: 22px;
    text-indent: -15px;
 }
h3 .hljs .content {
    padding-left: 20px;
    margin-left: 0px;
    text-indent: -15px;
    martin-bottom: 0px;
}
h4 .content, table .content, p .content, li .content { margin-left: 30px; }
h4 .content { 
    font-style: italic;
    font-size: 1em;
    margin-bottom: 0px;
}

</style>


# Package `henge` Documentation

## <a name="Henge"></a> Class `Henge`
```python
def __init__(self, database, schemas, henges=None, checksum_function=<function md5 at 0x7f0872bb2440>)
```

A user interface to insert and retrieve decomposable recursive unique identifiers (DRUIDs).
#### Parameters:

- `database` (`dict`):  Dict-like lookup database for sequences andhashes.
- `schemas` (`dict`):  One or more jsonschema schemas describing thedata types stored by this Henge
- `henges` (`dict`):  One or more henge objects indexed by object name forremote storing of items.
- `checksum_function` (`function(str) -> str`):  Default function tohandle the digest of the serialized items stored in this henge.




```python
def clean(self)
```

Remove all items from this database.



```python
def insert(self, item, item_type=None)
```

Add items (of a specified type) the the database.
#### Parameters:

- `item` (`list`):  List of items to add.
- `item_type` (`str`):  A string specifying the type of item. Must matchsomething from Henge.list_item_types. You can use Henge.select_item_type to automatically choose this, if only one fits.




```python
def item_types(self)
```

A list of item types handled by this Henge instance



```python
def retrieve(self, druid, reclimit=None, raw=False)
```

Retrieve an item given a digest
#### Parameters:

- `druid` (`str`):  The Decomposable recursive unique identifier (DRUID), ordigest that uniquely identifies that item to retrieve.
- `reclimit` (`int`):  Recursion limit. Set to None for no limit (default).
- `raw` (`bool`):  Return the value as a raw, henge-delimited string, insteadof processing into a mapping. Default: False.




```python
def select_item_type(self, item)
```

Returns a list of all item types handled by this instance that validate with the given item.
#### Parameters:

- `item` (`dict`):  The item you wish to validate type of.




```python
def show(self)
```

Show all items in the database.



```python
def connect_mongo(host='0.0.0.0', port=27017, database='henge_dict', collection='store')
```

Connect to MongoDB and return the MongoDB-backed dict object

Firstly, the required libraries are imported.
#### Parameters:

- `host` (`str`):  DB address
- `port` (`int`):  port DB is listening on
- `database` (`str`):  DB name
- `collection` (`str`):  collection key


#### Returns:

- `mongodict.MongoDict`:  a dict backed by MongoDB, ready to use as aHenge backend







*Version Information: `henge` v0.0.2, generated by `lucidoc` v0.4.2*